The New York Times - Bruhat Soma’s Electric Tiebreaking Performance Earns Spelling Bee Championship
By Aimee Ortiz, Alexandra E. Petri
Article Length: 5110 characters

Bruhat Soma spelled a stunning 29 words correctly in a 90-second spell-off to claim victory in the Scripps National Spelling Bee.

AdvertisementSKIP ADVERTISEMENTFrom 74th Place to Spelling Champion: One Boy’s Journey to Win the Scripps BeeBruhat Soma spelled a stunning 29 words correctly in a 90-second spell-off to claim victory in the Scripps National Spelling Bee.Bruhat Soma rattled off a head-spinning 29 correctly spelled words in 90 seconds to win the competition.Credit...Ting Shen for The New York TimesMay 30, 2024When Bruhat Soma lifted the ceramic Scripps National Spelling Bee trophy in a blizzard of confetti as cheers erupted from the audience late Thursday night, he was shocked but he also knew that, finally, he had achieved his goal. He was the champion.“I’m really happy that I won,” Bruhat said during a phone interview on Friday morning. “It’s like a dream come true.”The 12-year-old from Tampa, Fla., won in a spell-off round — just the second one to be held in the history of the competition. Bruhat rattled off a head-spinning 29 correctly spelled words in 90 seconds, including heautophany, nachschläge and puszta.Bruhat’s spell-off sprint on Thursday night won him the competition’s trophy, the Scripps Cup, and a grand prize of $50,000. He far surpassed his competitor, Faizan Zaki, a sixth grader from Dallas who correctly spelled 20 words, and also the bee’s previous spell-off record of 22 correct words in 2022, according to Bee officials.The spell-off came easily to Bruhat, who said he had prepared for this exact moment for six months. His father, Srinivas Soma, would prepare a daily list of 30 words for him to practice spelling out in 90 seconds, leaving him “kind of nervous, but I knew I had prepared” once the big moment arrived.In addition to studying with his father, Bruhat said he used SpellPundit, a popular tool among top spellers, and the dictionary to get ready for Scripps. He also worked with a spelling coach and practiced his vocabulary by making his own list of words to study, focusing on his trouble spots.“I’ve worked really hard,” he said.The 12-year-old said that while some people studied with music, in the company of others or while snacking, he said he preferred to do it alone in a quiet environment.“Quality of studying is also important,” he said, noting that if someone studied for a lengthy time but didn’t have the focus required to learn the words, “there’s really no point.”Bruhat was eliminated last year in the first round of the quarterfinals, tying for 74th place. “I was pretty disappointed by my performance, and I knew I had to work harder,” he said in a recorded interview that aired during the show.But his failure to make the finals last year drove him to study even more for this year’s competition, Bruhat said on Friday morning.“Instead of going down, I decided to be really motivated by that,” he said, adding, “so don’t be discouraged by failure.”Bruhat went into Thursday’s competition with a goal in mind and the confidence that he knew what he was doing, because he had worked for it.“I feel like working for it is the hardest part,” he said. “But I was able to do it because I really wanted that trophy, and now I finally have it.”The 12-year-old also competed in 2022, when he tied for 163rd place.Bruhat’s first word of the night was habitude, which means one’s “usual disposition or mode of behavior or procedure.” He steadily conquered words like Okvik, an Alaskan geographical name, and hoofddorp, a Dutch word, as the competition progressed in intensity and difficulty. He remained poised onstage, rarely seeming nervous and often thinking through the words by mock-typing out the letters in the air.After his win, Bruhat was joined onstage by his parents and two siblings, who expressed pride and elation at his achievement.In a recorded interview aired during the show, Bruhat — who is tall for his age — said that he also enjoys basketball. His favorite player is LeBron James, according to his bio on the Scripps National Spelling Bee website. He also enjoys reading, Ping-Pong and badminton, and he plays the snare drum in his middle school band.While competing, his forehead was marked with a vermilion tika, a Hindu symbol of power and purity. His parents said that Bruhat memorized about 80 percent of the sacred Hindu text, the Bhagavad Gita.Now that he’s won, Bruhat is unable to compete again for the Scripps Cup, which means he gets to relax this summer, play some basketball and maybe go on vacation.“I guess I’m done,” he said.But the future looks bright for the newest champion speller. He said he hoped to be a doctor some day, but he’s not quite sure what kind.“Probably in high school, I’m going to look at all the options and choose,” he said. For now, though, summer awaits.Emily Schmall, Maggie Astor and Emmett Lindner contributed reporting.A 12-Year-Old Wins Astonishing Spell-Off at Scripps National Spelling BeeA fast-paced spell-off capped the night: Takeaways from the spelling bee.Here are a few key moments, and words, from this year’s Scripps spelling bee.Here is the latest from the Scripps National Spelling Bee.Here are the eight finalists.Champion habits to spell S-U-C-C-E-S-S.AdvertisementSKIP ADVERTISEMENT